=Love Story in the 1970s=
=Episode 8=
(Be proactive and responsible.
Strive to be the best.)
Reporting, Ms. Xu.
I've decided to marry
Comrade Fang Muyang.
I'd like you to issue us
a letter of introduction
for the marriage registration.
You and Fang Muyang?
Ms. Xu, please don't misunderstand.
Up until yesterday,
Comrade Fang Muyang and I
were purely comrades.
Comrade Ye Feng
made me realize I shouldn't
aim above my station.
It was he
who helped me see my place.
He helped me understand
that Comrade Fang Muyang is
the one best suited to me.
Fei, that's not quite right.
In this new society,
we don't talk about matching
family backgrounds.
And there's no such thing
as reaching above your station.
You young people,
when it comes to love,
you lack experience.
If you take a wrong turn,
as long as you correct it in time,
you're still good comrades.
In any case,
I hope you and Ye Feng
remain good colleagues
and good comrades.
I understand.
Ms. Xu,
about that letter of introduction…
Have you thought this through?
I have.
All right.
I'll issue it for you.
(Jiangcheng Worker-Peasant Hospital)
We agreed to meet here. Where did he go?
Zhou.
Where's Fang Muyang?
He went out early this morning.
He hasn't come back.
(China Famous Tea, Biluochun)
Come, have some tea.
Thank you, Mrs. Fei.
Fang, why are you being so polite?
It's enough that you came.
And you even brought such fine tea.
Don't mention it.
What, have you never
seen tea before?
Don't you think
this tea looks a bit familiar?
Is there anything
that doesn't look familiar to you?
Please don't mind us.
You have a wonderful relationship.
I noticed it last time.
It's truly enviable.
You really know how to talk.
Are you fully recovered now?
I'm fine.
Such a good lad.
Too bad you were injured.
Poor thing.
Fang,
you really don't need to bring
so many things next time.
Well,
I know you're
very grateful to Fei Ni.
But Fei Ni
is getting married.
I know.
Mr. Fei, Mrs. Fei.
I came today to formally propose.
I'm going to marry Fei Ni.
What did you say?
Say that again.
I'm going to marry Fei Ni.
Dad. Mom.
Fei Ni.
You're back.
Fang Muyang.
Didn't I tell you
I wouldn't go to the hospital again?
There's no point coming here.
Get up. Let's go. Out.
Alright, alright. Stop pretending.
Fang Muyang already told us.
Told you what?
Turn around.
Fei Ni, what's going on?
Fang Muyang said
you're going to marry him.
He even brought all these gifts.
Didn't you say you wouldn't tell anyone?
- How could you tell them?
- You...
Come with me.
You, step outside.
Start talking.
What's this about?
Are you really going to marry that fool?
Mom, Fang Muyang isn't a fool.
Don't argue with me.
Didn't you tell me yourself
that there was nothing
going on between you two?
That was...
Not before.
There is now.
You...
Ni, have you completely
lost your mind?
Weren't you seeing Ye Feng?
We broke up.
You broke up?
Forget whose fault it was.
You end things with Ye Feng
and the next minute
you're marrying Fang Muyang?
How...
How is that not two-timing?
If people find out,
the gossip alone will bury you.
Let them talk.
I love Fang Muyang.
I'm marrying him.
You want to marry her? Not a chance.
Fang Muyang,
what on earth are you thinking?
Look at you.
You don't even have a proper job.
And forget about
having a place of your own.
You can barely feed yourself,
and you want to get married?
How are you going to support Ni?
Sir,
my sister left me one hundred yuan.
I'm in a training course
at the Jiangcheng Daily.
I'll be able to earn money
drawing comic strips.
I can support Fei Ni.
Alright, alright.
Forget marriage.
You shouldn't even like her.
What do you even see in him?
So he's decent-looking,
and has a mild temper.
What good is that?
When you marry a man,
it's about livelihood.
He doesn't even have a stable job.
And with his condition,
what if he never fully recovers?
What then?
What if he relapses one day?
By then, it'll be too late for regrets.
We'll deal with it
when we get there.
Ni,
you've always been
so sensible
and careful since you were little.
But when it comes to your own marriage,
you've lost your head!
Sir,
I'm very clear-headed.
I know Fei Ni is too.
Why can't you get it?
Even if Fei Ni has
broken up with Ye Feng,
her mother and I still won't
agree to this marriage.
You should
- just give it up.
- Give it up.
Fei Ni...
Fei Ni, don't be mad.
Why would you suddenly propose?
Don't couples visit both families
before they get married?
My parents aren't here,
so I could only go to yours.
Didn't we agree yesterday
to keep this from them for now?
I don't understand.
Why won't you tell them the truth?
Tell them you're marrying me
just to get a unit.
If I told them
I'm marrying you to free up
a room for my brother,
it would make things harder for them.
Forget it.
It was my idea anyway.
Are you so eager to marry me?
You've forgotten everything,
and you've still got
the nerve.
Stop worrying.
This started because of me.
I'll fix it.
How?
I'll find a way
to make your parents like me.
Now I'm sure
your brain really is damaged.
Don't underestimate me.
I'm very popular at the hospital.
The doctors and nurses all like me.
Stop sighing.
You'll sigh all your luck away.
Just let me try.
We've got nothing to lose.
Fine. Go ahead.
Who are you calling "nothing"?
My dad?
I...
Stop right there!
Mom.
Did you know
Fei Ni was marrying Fang Muyang?
Her marriage
has nothing to do with you.
Of course it does!
Why did you issue them
a letter of introduction?
It's freedom of marriage.
On what grounds would I refuse?
She can't marry Fang Muyang.
Absolutely not!
Ye Feng,
I need to criticize you on this.
You're not even
as clear-headed as Fei Ni.
She knows you two aren't
right for each other.
She stepped back.
She let it go.
But you just won't stop.
No, Mom.
Everyone knows
we were seeing each other.
And now she's marrying Fang Muyang.
What does that make me look like?
You care about your pride?
Then find someone better.
Like Ling Yi.
Let me tell you,
don't think I don't see through you.
You're upset
because Fei Ni got
into Fang Muyang's bike.
You feel humiliated.
You want to save face.
Just give up on that idea.
Stop pestering her.
Otherwise, you really will lose face.
Mom, that's not...
Enough.
It's settled!
Go buy some movie tickets later.
Take Ling Yi to the movies.
And after that, go for a walk together.
If you dare not go,
don't even think about coming home.
You're on your own.
Ms. Fang, Ms. Ding, goodbye.
Goodbye.
Ms. Fang, let's go together.
No, I still have some work to finish.
Oh, right, tomorrow's Sunday.
Let's go see a movie.
Sure.
(Math Department Staff Office)
(1975, Year of the Rabbit)
(Fang, about this research project...)
(After careful consideration,)
(the organization feels
you're not the right fit.)
(His father is
a senior military officer,)
(his mother serves too.)
(He comes from a top cadre family.)
Have you truly cut ties
with your parents
and your family?
Look at you.
You couldn't even
persuade Fang Muyang.
And you persuaded Fei Ni?
Is that even comparable?
Keep your voice down.
You know how stubborn Ni is.
You've seen it yourself.
But Fang Muyang's just a fool.
And you can't even handle that.
That makes him even harder to deal with.
He won't listen.
You can't reason with him.
Fang Muyang is
much more trouble than Fei Ni.
So what do we do now?
It's easy to understand
why Fang Muyang likes Ni.
I mean, Ni's such a good girl.
Who wouldn't like her?
Exactly.
But Ni likes Fang Muyang?
That's the problem.
Who falls for a fool?
Something's off.
What do you mean?
I don't know.
But lately,
she's not herself.
Let's sleep.
Go to sleep.
(Math Department Staff Office)
Long time no see.
Here for Professor Wu?
No.
I'm here for you.
Do you have a minute?
Take a walk with me?
Have you been busy lately?
I thought you weren't going to ask.
Are you going to answer?
I went to the countryside
with a medical team.
I just got back this morning.
I wasn't avoiding you.
I didn't ask that.
Then just take it as
a clarification from me.
I've been thinking
a lot these past few days.
About you.
About your family background.
To be honest,
as a partner,
you're not my best option.
The doctors at our hospital,
my father's comrade's daughter,
even the teachers at your school,
would all be more suitable than you
from a practical standpoint.
Isn't it too early
to talk about marriage?
We've only met a few times.
But for me,
that's already enough.
Fang Mujing,
I came here to ask you one thing.
Will you marry me?
You just said we're not suitable.
That's right. We're not.
But I'm not a pragmatist.
So I'm still choosing you.
I'm sorry, Qu Hua.
I have plenty of choices too.
And in my view,
many are better than you.
More suitable.
For example, teachers at our school,
my former university classmates,
even a doctor like you,
except he's already
a deputy hospital director.
And unlike you,
I happen to be a pragmatist.
If you're a pragmatist,
then you should choose me.
Oh?
You come
from a political background,
while I
come from
a "black five categories" family.
So when you propose,
I should just accept it?
You're a smart lady.
So am I.
Smart people don't need pleasantries.
So,
yes, I do think you should
accept without hesitation.
I need some time.
Fang Mujing,
you've been sitting here
for three hours.
For us doctors,
time is precious.
Three hours is enough
for me to save a life.
This is about marriage.
Shouldn't I think it through?
But you're not thinking.
When I asked you earlier,
you already had your answer.
You just didn't say it.
And what is my answer?
I don't know.
Then why not ask?
Fang Mujing,
will you marry me?
I will.
Playing chess with you is exhausting.
Liu, don't be so impatient.
Chess is all about staying calm.
One wrong move,
and you lose the whole game.
Mr. Fei.
You scared me.
What are you doing here?
I came to see you.
I never ask for that.
Come on, are we playing or not?
Of course...
Of course not!
I was about to make a great move,
then he shows up
and throws me off.
That's not fair.
You and your excuses.
A loss is a loss.
You'd lose even if he hadn't come.
No way.
When have I ever lost?
Mr. Fei is amazing at chess.
He taught me everything I know.
Stop egging him on.
Fei,
I'll give you a Horse.
I'll give you a Chariot.
How about this?
If Mr. Fei wins like that,
it won't count.
I'll play for him.
I'm his apprentice.
- Not bad, Fei.
- Come on.
Since when did you
take on an apprentice?
I'm tired of playing with you.
Fine, let's have a match.
But it's no fun without stakes.
What are we playing for?
Alright.
You name it.
Watermelon.
A big one.
No problem.
And if I win?
(Wuliangye)
These two bottles of liquor
and this chess set
were meant
as a gift for Mr. Fei.
If you win, they're yours.
No way!
Don't touch it.
That's the one.
If I lose,
I'll buy you watermelon for a week.
Deal.
Are you sure?
Mr. Fei,
trust me.
A jar of clam cream, too.
Alright.
Fei Ni,
I was just about
to look for you after work.
And some vanishing cream.
No, not the loose packs.
The bottled one.
Buying something this expensive?
Things must be
getting serious with Ye Feng.
Is that for his mother?
It's not for his mother.
It's for mine. How much?
Five yuan.
Shouldn't Ye Feng be paying?
I turned him down.
You're about to lose.
This kid's really good.
Make your move. Stop stalling.
Hurry up.
Stop stalling.
It's just one move.
How about
you just admit defeat?
Check.
Mr. Liu, you're out of moves.
Liu,
how many games
have you lost now?
How many big watermelons
do you owe me?
How about this?
We'll spot him a Horse. No,
a Chariot, a Horse, and a Canon.
Sure.
I'm done playing!
Where are you going?
To buy watermelons.
Fei, your apprentice is impressive.
That's because Mr. Fei taught me well.
Stay humble.
Young people need discipline.
Let's drink in celebration today!
Fei,
I heard you beat Liu.
Just a small win.
That's a huge watermelon.
Fei, who's this?
My chess apprentice.
Nice.
What are you doing?
This watermelon I won
and this liquor
are all for you.
Ni's mother went back
to her parents' today.
Otherwise,
you wouldn't have set foot in here.
Yes, of course.
Come in.
What were you thinking?
Even if Ye Feng is no good,
you can't marry Fang Muyang.
No wonder your parents won't agree.
Why are you saying that too?
Fei Ni, I know you're rushing
into marriage
to free up the room for us.
If you were
marrying someone like Ye Feng,
of course, I'd hope you'd marry soon.
But if it's someone like Fang Muyang,
even if you give us the room,
I wouldn't dare move in.
You'd actually marry a fool
for our sake?
No, Fei Ni.
I can't let you do that.
Your brother wouldn't agree either.
Lin Mei,
I'm marrying Fang Muyang
not for you or my brother.
I'm doing it for myself.
And besides,
Fang Muyang just lost his memory.
It's not like he's mentally impaired.
He's not as bad
as you make him out to be.
He's physically healthy,
he has good character,
and he can draw.
He can earn his own money now.
Most importantly,
the factory can give him a unit.
But at the end of the day,
he had a head injury.
What if there are lasting effects?
Fei Ni,
maybe Fang Muyang isn't that bad,
but you could definitely do better.
Right now,
Fang Muyang is the best choice.
Lin Mei, trust me.
I wouldn't risk ruining my whole future.
Even if I agree,
your brother won't.
Then don't tell him.
He'll find out eventually.
He'll blame me.
He won't.
How could he?
If you tell him now,
you'll just make things worse.
I can barely handle my parents as it is.
If Fei Ting gets involved too...
then I might as well die.
Don't say that.
Touch wood.
Alright.
What can I do to help?
Keep it a secret.
Wait here.
I'll grab you a couple of cans.
Master,
I just braised some beef.
Have a taste.
Fang,
don't simply call anyone master.
I only let it slide earlier
to save your face.
Alright.
Mr. Fei.
Let's have a drink.
Comrade Fang,
given where we stand right now,
it's not appropriate
for us to drink together.
Sure.
Alright.
Hello?
Is this Qianjin Farm?
I'm looking for Fei Ting.
(Car)
This thing isn't cheap, is it?
Where did you get it?
I made it.
You made it?
Yeah.
Fei Ni told me
you like playing chess.
I went around a few shops.
The cheap ones wouldn't suit you.
And the good ones...
I can't afford those.
One of my classmates
from the training course
had a broken
red sandalwood chair at home.
So I paid a little
and bought the wood.
I carved them one by one.
It wasn't hard.
You've got some skills after all.
Mr. Fei,
I can do a lot of things.
I won't go hungry.
I know why you're doing this.
You want her mother and me
to agree to your marriage with Ni.
I also know
you truly care about our Ni.
She's such a good girl.
Who wouldn't like her?
Right?
But let's be honest.
A good family
and background
are solid and objective conditions.
But feelings are subjective.
They're fragile.
What matters most is living well,
building a steady,
grounded life. Right?
Yes.
You're right.
I admit it.
Ye Feng has a good family.
But that doesn't mean
Fei Ni will live happily.
Now that's far-fetched.
Did Fei Ni tell you
why she broke up with Ye Feng?
Unbelievable.
So all that braised beef went to waste.
Mr. Fei, please.
Don't get upset.
Mr. Fei,
to me,
Fei Ni is the best in the world.
She's one of a kind.
I understand her.
I respect her.
But in Ye Feng's eyes,
she's just a worker
trying to marry up.
So tell me, Mr. Fei.
What should she choose?
Of course, I want her to choose someone
who cherishes her,
protects her, respects her.
You know,
going to university
is Fei Ni's dream.
It's what she wants most.
But in Ye Feng's eyes,
it's just her way of marrying up
or landing a better job.
Not only is she not cherished,
but she's looked down on.
Mr. Fei,
maybe Mrs. Fei and you think
that marrying someone
with better means matters more.
But if that person doesn't value her,
no matter how great his family is,
it means nothing.
Right?
So what you're saying is,
you support Fei Ni going to university?
I do. I fully support her.
If she needs it,
I'll help her.
I see.
No wonder our Ni likes you.
Let's say, just hypothetically...
Purely hypothetically speaking,
if I agree
to your marriage today,
can you promise me
that everything you said today is true?
Mr. Fei,
I promise you,
every word I said today is true.
And I'll stand by it.
Let's drink, just us two.
Don't just sit there
with the chessboard
between us like a border.
Come here.
Come on.
I may just pull curtains
at the theater now,
but thirty years ago,
I was the star
of our city's Peking Opera troupe.
Even if the sky falls, so what?
You know Tai Chi?
The Tai Chi I practice
has been passed
down in the Fei family.
The 72 Forms of Fei-style Tai Chi.
Push harder.
Use all your strength.
Harder.
There you go.
Mr. Fei,
you could
teach classes with that skill.
It'd be a shame
not to pass it down.
How about this?
When the time comes,
I'll illustrate all 72 forms,
add explanations,
bind them into a book,
and give a copy to everyone
so they can all admire your style.
But Mr. Fei,
the urgent matter
is my marriage with Fei Ni.
You've agreed,
but this household
has another half holding it up.
There's a way?
Let me think.
(Teaching Building)
Just these two questions.
Revise them at home.
-Alright, I understand.
-Good.
Professor Wu,
Qu Hua and I are getting married.
Please have some wedding candy.
Qu Hua?
I didn't expect things to move so fast.
Neither did I.
But overall,
I don't think it's a bad thing.
What do you see in him?
He comes from a good family.
What else
do you know about him?
He's a neurosurgeon.
Good-looking,
steady temperament,
and top-notch skills.
Knowing just that probably isn't enough.
What about his past relationships?
Who did he date?
Why did they break up?
Aren't you going to look into that?
To me, that's all in the past.
It doesn't matter,
as long as he comes
from a revolutionary family.
Professor Wu, once I marry him,
can I
join the project team?
Once you become a military spouse,
of course, you can.
But Fang,
is sacrificing your personal feelings
worth it?
It is.
And to me,
it's not even a sacrifice.
Fang.
Sometimes, life
is like our algorithm research.
You may have to go through
countless trials and errors
before you find the right answer.
I hope you treat love
with the same
perseverance as research.
But remember,
once you spot
a miscalculation,
don't cling to it blindly.
Are you saying
you don't have
high hopes for my marriage?
Whether I approve isn't what matters.
What matters is
whether you're ready.
After all,
you haven't known each other long.
You might not know him that well.
That's true.
But for me, it's enough.
Thank you, Professor Wu.
I'll go draft the application.
When we get to my place, just say
you bought these for my mom.
Alright.
I'll pay you back.
No need. Why are we talking money?
Fair enough.
Sooner or later,
what's mine is yours anyway.
I'm still not sure
this is going to work.
Just try to make a good impression.
And when we're there,
don't be so polite with me.
We're supposed to look like a couple.
We're not even registered yet.
We're not a couple yet.
When are we registering?
Only after our parents agree.
"Our parents?"
No.
- The Fei Family Tai Chi Manual.
Open it. Take a look.
Fei, that's you?
You can't tell?
I had no idea you practiced Tai Chi.
Plenty of people practice Tai Chi.
But how many
publish their own manual?
Fei, who put this together for you?
My apprentice.
Fang.
As the saying goes,
a man
leaves his name behind.
And I, Fei,
finally have a book of my own.
Would you like to learn it, too?
Are you in?
Yes or no?
Tai Chi is good stuff. Come on.
- Sign me up!
- I want to learn!
- Make a few more copies.
- Make a few more.
- Yes!
- Let's all learn.
- This is a martial arts manual.
It's not mass-produced.
I can't just make more.
How about this?
If you truly want to learn,
I'll sincerely teach you.
Call me Master Fei,
and I'll teach you for free.
- Teacher Fei!
Master Fei, we want to learn!
- Master Fei!
- Sign me up now!
- Me too!
Fang Muyang, you can stop now.
- Fang Muyang, there are people here.
- Isn't that Fei Ni?
Stop it. Hurry up.
Mr. Liu, no chess today?
Get lost, kid.
Fang Muyang, stop. Stop!
Isn't that Fei's daughter?
Left leg first.
Draw in the energy of heaven
and earth through the crown.
Let it sink to your dantian.
Mr. Fei, that's a lot of students.
Who's that young man?
No idea.
All thanks to your manual.
Fang,
you did a great job on that manual.
- Yeah.
- It looks great.
It's beautifully drawn.
Dad...
Go upstairs.
Wait...
Go on.
But...
Fei,
your apprentice became your son-in-law.
That's between the youngsters.
Who knows?
Hey, don't pose like a turtle.
Move.
Stand properly.
Half an hour,
then you're dismissed.
We continue tomorrow.
Hold it steady.
What's going on?
What manual?
Why were you
exchanging looks with my dad?
That's not important.
Your dad's on our side now.
We're allies.
Listen,
until your mom says yes,
don't rat me out.
Dad,
you really agree to our marriage?
Ni, let me ask you this.
Why are you so determined to marry him?
I...
Because he respects
and supports my dreams.
I believe we'll build
a good life together.
That's enough for me.
As for me,
you've passed my test.
As for your mom,
that depends on
whether our preemptive strike works.
A preemptive strike?
Wang,
why are you practicing Tai Chi?
Fei's apprentice published a manual.
We're practicing from it.
Apprentice?
Who?
The young lad Fang.
The young hero.
Baoying,
are you handing out
wedding candy soon?
What wedding candy?
Wedding candy!
Madam Wu,
you're so lucky.
Auntie Wu, you're back.
Congratulations.
When Fei Ni gets married,
don't forget our wedding candy.
Married?
To whom?
Oh, please.
Still denying it?
The director's son the other day,
and now the hero
who saved someone.
Your daughter really is something.
And this new son-in-law of yours
is quite impressive.
The gifts he brought you
are top quality, no doubt.
He's not my son-in-law.
Stop pretending.
My husband said
he just saw them downstairs,
holding hands.
All right.
Whose idea was it?
- Mine.
♪After the laughter, I think of you♪
♪After the storm, I think of you♪
♪In the little courtyard,
there you are dancing♪
♪That earnest you,
smiling so innocently♪
♪In spring, I stay by your side♪
♪When summer comes, I watch over you♪
♪In the light of dawn, you belong to me♪
♪At the edge of the world,
I will still hold you tight♪
♪There is a small place♪
♪Where they carry big dreams♪
♪Every lovely face♪
♪Shines brightly in the heart♪
♪Even when we collide,
we hold our course♪
♪Even when we stumble,
we keep our resolve♪
♪My you, walking toward the distance♪
♪Please carry our dreams
and let them soar♪